Okay, I am on the downloads page for
MySQL for Windows. This link is going to
be in the course notes. What I want
to do is come over here is to the MySQL
installer. I'm going to click on that link,
and I want the MySQL server, and I want
the version of MySQL community server
5.7.21 is fine. As this
course progresses and gets older, it's a
early 2018 I'm recording this, I'm sure
there's going to be additional releases. So,
consider 5.7 the minimal
release that we want to install. So, I'm
going to file here and go to the
download page
and scroll up. If you have a slow
internet connection, take this bottom
option, but I do have a fairly good
internet connection here, so I'm going to
take this one. And now, it's going to ask you
to create an Oracle account. You do not
need to do that. I'm just going to say no
thanks. Go ahead and start my download.
We see that it is downloaded that
pretty quickly. I'm going to click that.
And now, you can see that it's asking me
if I want to allow access. We could see
that I have clicked on the MySQL
installer launcher. It is a verified
publisher, Oracle America. I'm going
to say yes. Got a little safety there. You
do have some number of different options
here. I don't need a lot of stuff, so I'm
going to say and do a custom. Come down
here do custom and say next.
I want the MySQL server
and the x86 version is fine. And now, I want to
say applications and I want the MySQL
workbench. I got a strange
UI here. So, that's the two components
that I want to install. I don't need the
other stuff. Actually, I'm going to put
into the shell, as well, just in case we
need that.
Now, take a quick peek at the
utilities. I
don't think we need those. So, hopefully
not. I'm just going to go with the server,
workbench and shell. It should give us
everything that we need for working with
MySQL on Windows. Click Next and now I'm
going to click on execute. It's going to go
out and download these from Oracle.
It's going to download them and install
them. I'm going to pause the video here for
a minute and then come back to it once
everything's downloaded and installed.
Okay, everything is downloaded and
installed normally. So, I wanted to pause
that. Didn't want to keep you waiting and
watching my computer download stuff and
install it. So now, I'm going to click on
next,
and now, it's saying that it's ready to
configure that. So, say next. Now,
there's a couple different options. We
are not going to be getting into
database clusters, so no need to do that.
Standalone is perfectly fine for this
course. That is what we're going to be
focusing on, so that is what we want.
Now, this is a different options here, so
we can come down here. Take a look at
this, and really, a development machine is
fine. These options will set up MySQL, a
little bit differently. So, if we did have
like a dedicated server, we do not. We are
all working on our own personal
computers here. So, development machine is
fine.
TCP/IP, that is a network layer and we
will be connecting to MySQL over the
network using TCP/IP to port 3306. So,
this is fine and it's also asking us
open with the firewall. This is important
networking stuff. This is how we
will be connecting to MySQL. So, this is
perfectly fine. We'll take the defaults
on that and click on next. And now, it's
asking for the root account. The root
account is very important account. This
is like the master account, the
administrator account from MySQL. So, give
it a password that you can remember.It is giving me a
weak password, which is fine. I'm not too
terribly concerned about security on
this particular machine with MySQL. If
you had a commercial account or
commercial great server, you definitely
want something stronger. But here, I'm
going to just going to cheat a little bit and
give something easy to remember. We
are not going to get into user accounts
right now. We will do that later in the
course. The root account is going to be
fine for our initial purposes. Now, we
have a couple options. It's best to
run it as a Windows service, and what
this means, is that the MySQL database is
going to come up as a background process.
This is typically how I will run it on a
Windows machine as a service and then it
says started up a system startup. Now, you
might be worried about having a lot of
system resources on it. MySQL is actually
pretty light. It's pretty lean program,
especially in the windows world. So, don't
worry about it having running in the
background. It's not going to consume
that that many resources, especially if
you're not using it. That's just out
there in the background. It's going to
get pushed down by the operating system
and that you won't even notice that
it's running, generally speaking.
Now here, as far as the document store, we
are not going to enable that feature. So,
don't check off on that. No need for that.
And now, it says to apply this
configuration. You can see a list of
things that it's going to do. I'm going
to click on execute and allow it to go do
it.
You can see that it does run through
this list pretty quickly. So, it's going
through the initialization of the
database right now. That's going to
take a few seconds starting the database
server, apply to everything, and now, we're
going to click on finish, and we can see
that there is a configuration. And now,
we just say next. I am not going to
start the shell and workbench. We will do
those in a future video.
Now, I'm just going to click on
finish. At this point, MySQL is
installed on my Windows machine and
ready to use.